feat: identity state (#1141)
ory/docs: docs/identities/model/state.mdx

---

> id: state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id: identity-state
```

Author: done

> title: Activate and deactivate identities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Activate and de-activate identities
```

Author: done

slug: activate-deactivate-user-login-state

> sidebar_label: De-activate identities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Change identity state
```
I think it's a good compromise considering the fact that two actions are important here.

Author: State is pretty generic. I think if you were to look for "how do i disable a user (login)" in the docs, you might not look for "identity state". With De-activate identities or something similar, one would find this more easily in the sidebar imo

Reviewer: Ok, I don't have anything better than "de-activate" so let's leave it at that.

Author: Ok, we can always revisit / change this if we have another better idea

---

# Identity state

The identity state determines whether an identity is active or not with the following states:

> - `active`: the identity is allowed to perform self-service flows such as sign in.
> - `inactive`: the identity can't perform self-service flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `active` - The identity can use self-service flows such as sign-in.
- `inactive` - The identity can't use self-service flows.
```

> When an inactive identity tries to sign in, the server will respond with a UI error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an inactive identity tries to sign in, the server responds with a UI error.
```

https://github.com/ory/docs#grammar-and-style

> Use [zero conditional](https://www.ef.com/wwen/english-resources/english-grammar/zero-conditional/) when talking about the cause-and-effect in software behavior.

> ## Use the SDK to activate and deactivate identities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Change identity state using SDK
```

Original title too long

> Use the SDK to activate and deactivate identities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the SDK to activate and de-activate identities:
```
